README.md, before:

# EECS4413_Group_Project_WS

## Project Setup

#### Prerequisites
- Git https://git-scm.com/
- Eclipse Enterprise edition https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/release/kepler/sr2/eclipse-ide-java-ee-developers
- Java https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/java/technologies/downloads/
- Tomcat Server https://tomcat.apache.org/download-90.cgi

#### Setup
1. Clone project
```
git clone https://github.com/Faizi-AdnanFahad/EECS4413_Group_Project_WS.git
```
2. Import projects into eclipse and then sync maven dependencies https://maven.apache.org/
![figure 1](documents/image.png)









# EECS4413_Group_Project_WS
1. Please import the zip file that has been submitted in eclass to your eclipse or clone the repository of the project from https://github.com/Faizi-AdnanFahad/EECS4413_Group_Project_WS
2. Once imported, please go to \electricVehicleSystem\src\main\webapp\META-INF\context.xml file to change the path to the database to the absolute path of the database (electricVehicleSystem.db) and find the project root for your own machine.
3. You can run the application by right clicking on root folder of the project on eclipse and run on server.
4. Make sure that you are using port 8080 for testing.
5. Once the server is running you can make http calls listed in the Postman Related Test Cases section or go to the URLs in the Web Browser Command Section.

Commit message:

Instruction on how to run the system on local host and cloud

README.md, after:

# EECS4413_Group_Project_WS

## Project Setup

#### Prerequisites
- Git https://git-scm.com/
- Eclipse Enterprise edition https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/release/kepler/sr2/eclipse-ide-java-ee-developers
- Java https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/java/technologies/downloads/
- Tomcat Server https://tomcat.apache.org/download-90.cgi

#### Setup
1. Clone project
```
git clone https://github.com/Faizi-AdnanFahad/EECS4413_Group_Project_WS.git
```
2. Import projects into eclipse and then sync maven dependencies https://maven.apache.org/
3. Click on import in eclipse > General, the click on Exisiting projects into workspace.
![figure 1](documents/1.png)
4. Select a root directory and browse to the location of the electricVehicleSystem project that was cloned from the repository
- ![figure 2](documents/2.png)
5. Setup the tomcat server by clicking new > other
- ![figure 3](documents/3.png)
7. Select  the Server
- ![figure 4](documents/4.png)
8. Choose Tomcat 10.1 server.
- ![figure 5](documents/5.png)
9. Browse to the location of downloaded Tomcat driver downloaded.
- ![figure 6](documents/6.png)
11. Click on the tomcat server and change the admin port to 8005
- ![figure 7](documents/8.png)
12. Set your eclipse working directory to be the project root folder (Important for retrivering the data from the SQLlite database)
  - Click on Run > Run Configuration
    - ![figure 8](documents/9.png)
  - Go to arguments tab
    - ![figure 9](documents/10.png)
  - Click on other and then File System and set your eclipse working directory to be the project root folder 
    - ![figure 10](documents/11.png)

**Important**
If step 12 is not followed correctly, the website will not show the data from the database. In this case, you can set the path to the database to the absolute path.
  - Go to \electricVehicleSystem\src\main\webapp\META-INF\context.xml
  - Put the absolute path in the url="jdbc:sqlite" + "absolute path of the electricVehcileSystem.db" which exists in the project root folder.

13. Funally, you can run the application on the Tomcat server.
- ![figure 10](documents/7.png)

Additionally, the project is deployed on the AWS cloud with EC2 on the following link: http://54.166.233.199/electricVehicleSystem/
However, according to the credit given on AWS, the lab and machine should be running when the trying to access the above link which is only accessible for 4 hours.
